book.md, before:

---
layout: post
title: The complete salary negotiation guide
tagline: Read Fearless Salary Negotiation for free
excerpt: Read Fearless Salary Negotiation online for free and quickly learn everything you need to know about salary negotiation in one place.
last_modified_at: 2016-07-05
share_title: Read Fearless Salary Negotiation for free
---
<!--- You have a feeling you should negotiate your salary, but you don't know where to start. Searching online will help you find *tons* of articles written on many salary negotiation topics, but the sheer number of articles from reputable sources can be overwhelming.

What if there were a complete guide written by a single expert to walk you through the entire salary negotiation process?

## Read Fearless Salary Negotiation—the complete salary negotiation guide—for free online -->

*Fearless Salary Negotiation* is a step-by-step guide that walks you through every phase of the interview and salary negotiation processes, and it's packed with specific tactics so you always know what to do next. That's why it quickly became [a #1 Best Seller on Amazon]({{ site.baseurl }}/amazon/).

<html>
{% include book_contents_linked.html %}
</html>

## Where should you start?

If you have a job interview coming up, start with [How to ace your next interview]({{ site.baseurl }}/interview-preparation/). If you already have a job offer, start with [How to negotiate your new salary]({{ site.baseurl }}/why-negotiate-starting-salary/).

If you're happy where you are but want more from your current job, start with [How to get your next promotion]({{ site.baseurl }}/how-to-get-promoted-at-work/).

## Why am I giving this away for free?

I like [helping people]({{ site.bsaeurl }}/testimonials/), and this is another way I can help people by making sure everyone has access to my book.

## How do I make money if I'm giving it away?

Some people will be happy reading the book for free online, and others are happy to pay for more. Some will want to read it on their [Kindle or in iBooks]({{ site.baseurl }}/#basic). Some will want the worksheets and email templates that come with [the book]({{ site.baseurl }}/#basic). Some will want [self-paced courses]({{ site.baseurl }}/video-courses/) to really master the material. 

And for those considering [1-on-1 coaching]({{ site.baseurl }}/coach/) for accountability and a customized plan, this is a great way to show them that I know what I'm talking about.

My book is the *foundation* for everything else I offer, and those other things are very valuable.

## Why would you buy it if you can get it here for free?

<ul class="checkbox-list">
  <li class="checkbox-list__item"><strong>Convenience.</strong> I've tried to make the online version of <em>Fearless Salary Negotiation</em> easy to read and navigate, but it's still a collection of web pages. When you buy <a href="/#basic">The Basic Bundle</a> or any of the <a href="{{ site.baseurl }}/video-courses/">video course bundles</a>, you can download the eBook to your own eReader where you can read offline, take notes, and own the book. When you buy the video course bundles, you can download the video courses and you own them forever.</li>
	<li class="checkbox-list__item"><strong>Worksheets.</strong> Several of the chapters have companion worksheets that you get when you buy the book. Those worksheets will help you get better results (more money).</li>
	<li class="checkbox-list__item"><strong>Email templates.</strong> Several of the chapters have email templates, which are hard to replicate from an HTML page. When you buy the book, you also get your own editable copy of those templates so you can use them yourself and get better results (more money).</li>
	<li class="checkbox-list__item"><strong>Case studies.</strong> When you buy the book, you get case studies that are real stories from real people about how they negotiated a higher salary.</li> 
	<li class="checkbox-list__item"><strong>Future updates.</strong> I will continue to add things to the book that you will only get when you buy it from me. For example, I'm currently recording the audiobook and making printable checklists to accompany each chapter so you get better results (more money—are you sensing a theme yet?). You'll only get those if you have bought the book.</li>
</ul>

## "I can't buy it, but I'm glad you made it available for free. How do I say thanks?"

Please share it. The more you share, the more people will see it. That means more people can use *Fearless Salary Negotiation*, and more people will buy it.

Use the little buttons below to share on your favorite social network, or just copy/paste [the link to this page]({{ site.baseurl }}{{ page.url }}) and send it to someone who might benefit from it.

Commit message:

swapped promotion-course form for raise-course form, manually added drip overlay form to all raise-chapter articles

book.md, after:

---
layout: post
title: The complete salary negotiation guide
tagline: Read Fearless Salary Negotiation for free
excerpt: Read Fearless Salary Negotiation online for free and quickly learn everything you need to know about salary negotiation in one place.
last_modified_at: 2016-07-05
share_title: Read Fearless Salary Negotiation for free
---
<!--- You have a feeling you should negotiate your salary, but you don't know where to start. Searching online will help you find *tons* of articles written on many salary negotiation topics, but the sheer number of articles from reputable sources can be overwhelming.

What if there were a complete guide written by a single expert to walk you through the entire salary negotiation process?

## Read Fearless Salary Negotiation—the complete salary negotiation guide—for free online -->

*Fearless Salary Negotiation* is a step-by-step guide that walks you through every phase of the interview and salary negotiation processes, and it's packed with specific tactics so you always know what to do next. That's why it quickly became [a #1 Best Seller on Amazon]({{ site.baseurl }}/amazon/).

<html>
{% include book_contents_linked.html %}
</html>

## Where should you start?

If you have a job interview coming up, start with [How to ace your next interview]({{ site.baseurl }}/interview-preparation/). If you already have a job offer, start with [How to negotiate your new salary]({{ site.baseurl }}/why-negotiate-starting-salary/).

If you're happy where you are but want more from your current job, start with [How to get your next promotion]({{ site.baseurl }}/how-to-get-promoted-at-work/).

## Why am I giving this away for free?

I like [helping people]({{ site.bsaeurl }}/testimonials/), and this is another way I can help people by making sure everyone has access to my book.

## How do I make money if I'm giving it away?

Some people will be happy reading the book for free online, and others are happy to pay for more. Some will want to read it on their [Kindle or in iBooks]({{ site.baseurl }}/#basic). Some will want the worksheets and email templates that come with [the book]({{ site.baseurl }}/#basic). Some will want [self-paced courses]({{ site.baseurl }}/video-courses/) to really master the material. 

And for those considering [1-on-1 coaching]({{ site.baseurl }}/coach/) for accountability and a customized plan, this is a great way to show them that I know what I'm talking about.

My book is the *foundation* for everything else I offer, and those other things are very valuable.

## Why would you buy it if you can get it here for free?

<ul class="checkbox-list">
  <li class="checkbox-list__item"><strong>Convenience.</strong> I've tried to make the online version of <em>Fearless Salary Negotiation</em> easy to read and navigate, but it's still a collection of web pages. When you buy <a href="/#basic">The Basic Bundle</a> or any of the <a href="{{ site.baseurl }}/video-courses/">video course bundles</a>, you can download the eBook to your own eReader where you can read offline, take notes, and own the book. When you buy the video course bundles, you can download the video courses and you own them forever.</li>
	<li class="checkbox-list__item"><strong>Worksheets.</strong> Several of the chapters have companion worksheets that you get when you buy the book. Those worksheets will help you get better results (more money).</li>
	<li class="checkbox-list__item"><strong>Email templates.</strong> Several of the chapters have email templates, which are hard to replicate from an HTML page. When you buy the book, you also get your own editable copy of those templates so you can use them yourself and get better results (more money).</li>
	<li class="checkbox-list__item"><strong>Case studies.</strong> When you buy the book, you get case studies that are real stories from real people about how they negotiated a higher salary.</li> 
	<li class="checkbox-list__item"><strong>Future updates.</strong> I will continue to add things to the book that you will only get when you buy it from me. For example, I'm currently recording the audiobook and making printable checklists to accompany each chapter so you get better results (more money—are you sensing a theme yet?). You'll only get those if you have bought the book.</li>
</ul>

## "I can't buy it, but I'm glad you made it available for free. How do I say thanks?"

Please share it. The more you share, the more people will see it. That means more people can use *Fearless Salary Negotiation*, and more people will buy it.

Use the little buttons below to share with someone who might benefit from it!

{% include drip_form.html form="raise-course" %}
