media-appearances.md, before:

---
layout: post
title: Josh Doody and Fearless Salary Negotiation in the media
tagline: TV and Radio, Articles, Podcasts, and Talks
headline: Josh Doody and <br>Fearless Salary Negotiation <br>in the media
excerpt: TV and Radio, Articles, Podcasts, and Talks featuring Josh Doody and Fearless Salary Negotiation
last_modified_at: 2017-07-25
share_title: Fearless Salary Negotiation in the media
---
{% include fsn_bio.html %}

I love finding new audiences through articles and interviews, podcasts, and talks. This page is a good summary of other places where you can find my work.

For booking and interview requests, send me a message on [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/joshdoody).

To hire me as your salary negotiation coach, [click here]({{ site.baseurl }}/coach).

Learn more about [*Fearless Salary Negotiation*]({{ site.baseurl }}/get-started/).

## <a name="tv" class="below-nav">Television and Radio

A television interview with [Shaun Ley](https://twitter.com/bbcshaunley) on the [BBC News Channel](http://www.bbc.com/news/av/10318089/bbc-news-channel) about BBC gender pay disparity and how to negotiate your salary:

<div class="video-container">
	<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/RohE7VqgJK0" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</div><br>

<p>A radio interview with <a href="https://twitter.com/StephenNolan">Stephen Nolan</a> on <a href="http://www.bbc.co.uk/5live">BBC 5 Live</a>:  
	<audio controls>
	  <source src="/download/josh-doody-bbc-5-live-salary-negotiation-interview.mp3" ype="audio/mpeg">
	Or <a href="/download/josh-doody-bbc-5-live-salary-negotiation-interview.mp3">click here</a> to download the MP3 directly
	</audio>
</p>

## <a name="articles" class="below-nav">Articles

1. [9 Things to Never Say in a Salary Negotiation](https://www.glassdoor.com/blog/9-things-to-never-say-in-a-salary-negotiation/){:rel="nofollow"} – Glassdoor (also [Business Insider](http://www.businessinsider.com/9-things-you-should-never-say-during-a-salary-negotiation-2018-3){:rel="nofollow"}, [Fast Company](https://www.fastcompany.com/3068323/career-evolution/nine-words-and-phrases-to-avoid-when-youre-negotiating-a-salary){:rel="nofollow"}, [The Motley Fool](https://www.fool.com/careers/2017/10/30/9-things-to-never-say-in-a-salary-negotiation.aspx){:rel="nofollow"}, [Entrepreneur](https://www.entrepreneur.com/article/321120))
2. [How Do I Avoid Being Pigeonholed?](https://www.glassdoor.com/blog/how-do-i-avoid-being-pigeonholed/){:rel="nofollow"} – Glassdoor 
3. [Salary Negotiation Scripts For Any Job](https://www.glassdoor.com/blog/salary-negotiation-scripts-for-any-job/){:rel="nofollow"} – Glassdoor (also [Fast Company](https://www.fastcompany.com/40406763/exactly-what-to-say-in-these-four-common-salary-conversations{:rel="nofollow"}), [CNBC](http://www.cnbc.com/2017/06/15/salary-negotiation-scripts-for-any-job.html){:rel="nofollow"}, [MSN](https://www.msn.com/en-my/news/other/salary-negotiation-scripts-for-any-job/ar-BBCJUoI){:rel="nofollow"}, [Yahoo! Finance](https://ca.finance.yahoo.com/news/salary-negotiation-scripts-job-200600153.html){:rel="nofollow"})
4. [13 Must-Have Words to Include In Your Resume](https://www.glassdoor.com/blog/words-to-include-in-resume/){:rel="nofollow"} – Glassdoor (also [Business Insider](http://www.businessinsider.com/13-words-you-should-include-on-your-resume-according-to-a-panel-of-experts-2017-4){:rel="nofollow"}, [Entrepeneur](https://www.entrepreneur.com/article/334012){:rel="nofollow"})
5. [9 Reasons Why You Didn’t Get a Raise](https://www.glassdoor.com/blog/reasons-you-didnt-get-a-raise/){:rel="nofollow"} – Glassdoor 
6. [4 Ways to Score a Great Salary at Your First Job](https://www.glassdoor.com/blog/salary-first-job/){:rel="nofollow"} – Glassdoor 
7. [How to Negotiate Beyond the Raise You Were Offered?](https://www.glassdoor.com/blog/how-to-negotiate-beyond-the-raise-you-were-offered/){:rel="nofollow"} – Glassdoor 
8. [What To Do If You Don’t Want to Be A Manager, But Want More Money](https://www.glassdoor.com/blog/what-to-do-if-you-dont-want-to-be-a-manager-but-want-more-money/){:rel="nofollow"} – Glassdoor (also [CNBC](http://www.cnbc.com/2017/07/07/what-to-do-if-you-dont-want-to-be-a-manager-but-want-more-money.html){:rel="nofollow"}, [Yahoo! Finance](https://uk.finance.yahoo.com/news/don-t-want-manager-want-142800962.html))
9. [Why You Need to Start Skill Stacking](https://www.glassdoor.com/blog/skill-stacking/){:rel="nofollow"} – Glassdoor 
10. [11 Words and Phrases to Use in Salary Negotiations if You Want to Succeed](https://www.glassdoor.com/blog/words-phrases-to-use-salary-negotiations/){:rel="nofollow"} – Glassdoor (also [AOL](https://www.aol.com/article/finance/2017/08/09/11-words-and-phrases-to-use-in-salary-negotiations-if-you-want-t/23072259/){:rel="nofollow"})
11. [6 Things to Never Say to a Recruiter](https://www.glassdoor.com/blog/never-say-to-a-recruiter/){:rel="nofollow"} – Glassdoor (also [Fast Company](https://www.fastcompany.com/40563811/dont-tell-recruiters-these-things-if-you-want-the-job){:rel="nofollow"})
12. [Become a 'fearless salary negotiator' - the five things to do now](http://www.telegraph.co.uk/men/thinking-man/become-fearless-salary-negotiator-five-things-do-now/){:rel="nofollow"} (paywall) – The Telegraph
13. [How to negotiate a raise](http://www.forbes.com/sites/tomanderson/2016/07/06/how-to-negotiate-a-raise/#6dbd01246fa0){:rel="nofollow"} – Forbes.com
14. [11 ways to ruin a job interview according to three experts](http://www.independent.co.uk/news/business/news/11-ways-to-ruin-a-job-interview-according-to-three-experts-a6721271.html){:rel="nofollow"} – Independent.co.uk
15. [How to (successfully) ask for a raise](https://generalassemb.ly/blog/how-to-successfully-ask-for-a-raise/){:rel="nofollow"} – General Assembly Blog
16. [Interview with Engr. Josh Doody - Career Coach and author of Fearless Salary Negotiation](https://www.eeweb.com/spotlight/interview-with-engr-josh-doody){:rel="nofollow"} – EEWeb
17. [How to Negotiate Your Salary via Email](https://business.tutsplus.com/tutorials/how-to-negotiate-your-salary-via-email--cms-27031){:rel="nofollow"} – tuts+
18. [How to leap past 90% of applicants](https://purelyfunctional.tv/functional-programming-career-guide/resume-interview-salary/){:rel="nofollow"} – purelyfunctional.tv
19. [A simple process to negotiate your starting salary](http://www.lewis-lin.com/blog/2016/10/13/a-simple-process-to-negotiate-your-starting-salary){:rel="nofollow"} – lewis-lin.com
20. [What Shark Tank can teach us about career and business decisions](http://annieduke.com/annies-analysis/#what-shark-tank-can-teach-us-about-business-and-career-decisions){:rel="nofollow"} – annieduke.com
21. [How to ask for a promotion at work](http://interview-coach.co.uk/howtoaskforapromotion/){:rel="nofollow"} – interview-coach.co.uk
22. [Five salary negotiation tactics everyone can use to negotiate starting salary](http://interview-coach.co.uk/five-salary-negotiation-tactics-everyone-can-use-negotiate-starting-salary/){:rel="nofollow"} – interview-coach.co.uk
23. [Do you have to quit your job to get a big raise?](https://simpleprogrammer.com/2016/11/16/do-you-have-to-quit-your-job-to-get-a-big-raise/){:rel="nofollow"} – SimpleProgrammer.com
24. [How and when to ask for a raise at work—A 6-part series](https://www.paysa.com/blog/2017/01/16/the-cost-of-waiting-for-a-raise/){:rel="nofollow"} – paysa
25. [An interview coach says there’s a right way to answer the dreaded salary history question](https://qz.com/942800/an-interview-coach-says-theres-a-right-way-to-answer-the-dreaded-salary-history-question/){:rel="nofollow"} – Quartz
26. [This Is How You Get More Than the Standard Cost-of-Living Raise](https://www.themuse.com/advice/this-is-how-you-get-more-than-the-standard-costofliving-raise){:rel="nofollow"} – The Muse
27. [8 Things You Should Never Say to a Tech Recruiter](https://insights.dice.com/2018/08/20/8-things-never-say-tech-recruiter/){:rel="nofollow"} – Dice
28. [The Secret to Negotiating $5,000 – $15,000 More in Pay](https://www.glassdoor.com/blog/negotiation-secrets/){:rel="nofollow"} – Glassdoor
29. [Interviewing for a new job? Here's the best time to bring up salary](https://www.cnn.com/2019/04/10/success/salary-job-interview/index.html){:rel="nofollow"} – CNN
30. [This Is How Early You Should Arrive For A Job Interview](https://www.huffpost.com/entry/how-early-job-interview_l_5cabadfae4b02e7a705c1e15){:rel="nofollow"} – Huffpost
31. [Most Companies Are Sticking With 3 Percent Raises This Year. Here's What To Do About It.](https://www.huffpost.com/entry/three-percent-raise-negotiation-tips_l_5c6da28ae4b0f40774cb71ac){:rel="nofollow"} – Huffpost
32. [Here's What To Do When You Are Going To Be Late To A Job Interview](https://www.huffpost.com/entry/late-for-job-interview-tips_l_5cb4f26fe4b098b9a2d8a078){:rel="nofollow"} – Huffpost
33. [5 Seemingly Harmless Mistakes You Must Avoid In A Video Job Interview](https://www.huffpost.com/entry/video-interview-tips-mistakes_l_5cdd91f6e4b01571365d9f99?xb1){:rel="nofollow"} – Huffpost
34. [Got a job offer? Here's how to negotiate a counter offer with your current employer](https://www.cnn.com/2019/07/25/success/job-offer-leverage/index.html){:rel="nofollow"} – CNN Business
35. [What It Means When You Hear Silence After A Job Interview](https://www.huffpost.com/entry/hiring-manager-silence-explained_l_5d6e75a1e4b0110804550e08){:rel="nofollow"} – Huffpost
36. [How To Answer The 'Tell Me About Yourself' Question In A Job Interview](https://www.huffpost.com/entry/how-to-answer-tell-me-about-yourself-job-interview-question_l_5dc99dcde4b02bf5794433e2){:rel="nofollow"} – Huffpost
37. [How To Answer The Salary Expectations Question In A Job Interview](https://www.huffpost.com/entry/salary-expectations-question-job-interview_l_5dfa4ec2e4b0969b618ee923?6r4){:rel="nofollow"} – Huffpost
38. [What Do You Do With Multiple Offers From The Same Company?](https://www.glassdoor.com/blog/multiple-offers/){:rel="nofollow"} – Glassdoor
39. [The Email Subject Lines That Will Help You Get A Job](https://www.huffpost.com/entry/email-subject-lines-get-a-job_l_603d2323c5b617a7e40fb1b2){:rel="nofollow"} – Huffpost

## <a name="podcasts" class="below-nav">Podcasts

1. [Salary Negotiation with Josh Doody](http://www.kalzumeus.com/2016/06/03/kalzumeus-podcast-episode-12-salary-negotiation-with-josh-doody/){:rel="nofollow"} – Kalzumeus podcast with Patrick McKenzie
2. [Fearless Salary Negotiation – Josh Doody](http://engineeringinsightspodcast.com/episode25/){:rel="nofollow"} – Engineering Insights
3. [How to Improve Your Salary Negotiation Skills](http://www.careercloud.com/news/2016/5/7/how-to-improve-your-salary-negotiation-skills){:rel="nofollow"} – CareerCloud Radio
4. [Hiring Recruiters; Fearless Salary Negotiation for Recruiters](http://scottlove.libsyn.com/grt/episode-39-hiring-recruiters-fearless-salary-negotiation-for-recruiters-staffing){:rel="nofollow"} – Staffing & Recruiter Training Podcast
5. [Fearless Salary Negotiation with Josh Doody](http://www.careerdesigncoach.com/episode26){:rel="nofollow"} – Career Design Coach
6. [Josh Doody](https://soundcloud.com/productpeopleclub/ep-001-josh-doody){:rel="nofollow"} – Product People Club
7. [Get some guts](http://buildandlaunch.net/22/){:rel="nofollow"} – Build and Launch
8. [The Startup-Style Book Launch w/Josh Doody](http://www.chasingproduct.com/episodes/episode-35-the-startup-style-book-launch-wjosh-doody){:rel="nofollow"} – Chasing Product
9. [FearlessSalaryNegotiation.com](http://www.builtinadaypodcast.com/2016/04/24/episode-3/){:rel="nofollow"} – Built In A Day
10. [MASTERING The Interview Process & LinkedIn for Developers](https://soundcloud.com/starthere-webdev/26-level-up-your-web-dev-job-linkedin-for-developers-and-mastering-the-interview-process){:rel="nofollow"} – Start Here: Web Development
11. [How to Get a Better Job w/Higher Salary (Interviewing Series Salary Negotiation Masterclass)](https://soundcloud.com/starthere-webdev/how-to-get-a-better-job-with-higher-salary){:rel="nofollow"} – Start Here: Web Development
12. [Despite Upward Career Trajectory, Nothing Sparked His Imagination](http://www.discoveryourtalentpodcast.com/podcast/josh-doody/){:rel="nofollow"} – Discover Your Talent Do What You Love
13. [Salary Negotiation for Engineers](http://engineeringcareercoach.com/2016/05/17/tecc-115-salary-negotiation-engineers/){:rel="nofollow"} – The Engineering Career Coach
14. [Josh Doody, Fearless Salary Negotiation](https://www.copelandcoaching.com/2016/06/14/ccp104-josh-doody-fearless-salary-negotiation/){:rel="nofollow"} – Copeland Coaching Podcast
15. [Negotiating What You Are Worth with Josh Doody](http://happentoyourcareer.com/136) – Happen to Your Career
16. [How to negotiate your salary, with Josh Doody](http://www.graduatejobpodcast.com/salary/){:rel="nofollow"} – Graduate Job Podcast
17. [Expert Interview: How to Negotiate Your Salary Like a Pro](http://www.discoveryourtalentpodcast.com/podcast/josh-doody-2/){:rel="nofollow"} – Discover Your Talent Do What You Love
18. [Fearless Salary Negotiation with Josh Doody](https://devchat.tv/ruby-rogues/274-rr-fearless-salary-negotiation-with-josh-doody){:rel="nofollow"} – The Ruby Rogues
19. [How to get your next raise](https://www.macslist.org/ep-049-get-next-raise-josh-doody/){:rel="nofollow"} – Find Your Dream Job
20. [Josh Doody, Author of Fearless Salary Negotiation](https://soundcloud.com/dandanglobal/dailydandan33){:rel="nofollow"} – Daily Dandan
21. [Josh Doody on Salary Negotiation for Software Engineers](http://www.se-radio.net/2016/11/se-radio-episode-275-josh-doody-on-salary-negotiation-for-software-engineers/){:rel="nofollow"} – Software Engineering Radio
22. [Josh Doody Talks About How to Get Your First Development Job](https://www.angularonrails.com/josh-doody-talks-get-first-development-job/){:rel="nofollow"} – Angular on Rails
23. [Fearless Salary Negotiation Tips With Josh Doody](https://www.listenmoneymatters.com/salary-negotiation-tips/){:rel="nofollow"} – Listen Money Matters
24. [Josh Doody - Fearless Salary Negotiation](http://developeronfire.com/podcast/episode-217-josh-doody-fearless){:rel="nofollow"} – Developer on Fire
25. [Stripe Observability with Cory Watson](https://softwareengineeringdaily.com/2017/03/15/stripe-observability-with-cory-watson/){:rel="nofollow"} - Software Engineering Daily ("4 Salary Negotiation Tips" starting at the 1:02:50 mark)
26. [Salary Negotiations with Josh Doody](http://completedeveloperpodcast.com/episode-85/){:rel="nofollow"} – Complete Developer Podcast
27. [How to be a badass at making money](https://www.monster.com/career-advice/article/jen-sincero-badass-at-making-money-0517){:rel="nofollow"} – Jobsessed—A Monster podcast
28. [Josh Doody on Narrowing His Positioning, part 1](http://consultingpipelinepodcast.com/40){:rel="nofollow"} – The Consulting Pipeline Podcast
29. [From Full-Time Job to Full-Time Freelancing](http://www.100kfreelancing.com/0123-full-time-job-full-time-freelancing-wjosh-doody/){:rel="nofollow"} – $100k Freelancing
30. [Resumes, Interviews, and Negotiation with Josh Doody](http://msdevshow.com/2017/07/resumes-interviewing-and-negotation-with-josh-doody/){:rel="nofollow"} – MS Dev Show
31. [What Building a Successful Business Really Looks Like with Josh Doody](https://freelancetransformation.com/blog/what-building-a-successful-business-really-looks-like-with-josh-doody){:rel="nofollow"} – Freelance Transformation
32. [How to stand out and get paid more with Josh Doody](https://learntocodewith.me/podcast/how-to-get-paid-more-with-josh-doody/){:rel="nofollow"} – Learn to Code With Me
33. [How to Optimize for Opt-Ins and Conversions with Josh Doody](https://doubleyourfreelancing.com/season1-josh-doody/){:rel="nofollow"} – Double Your Freelancing
34. [Josh Doody talks about the biggest avoidable mistakes in salary negotiation](https://medium.com/@JBunky/people-stack-podcast-josh-doody-talks-about-the-biggest-avoidable-mistakes-in-salary-negotiation-ff551a531bd3){:rel="nofollow"} – People Stack Podcast
35. [Josh Doody on Narrowing His Positioning, part 1](http://consultingpipelinepodcast.com/40){:rel="nofollow"} – The Consulting Pipeline Podcast
36. [Josh Doody updates us on his narrowed market position 1 year in](http://consultingpipelinepodcast.com/117){:rel="nofollow"} – The Consulting Pipeline Podcast
37. [Josh Doody on Why, When, and How to Niche Your Business](https://rezzz.com/podcast/josh-doody-on-why-when-and-how-to-niche-your-business/){:rel="nofollow"} – Live in the Feast
38. [Negotiating Your Salary and Advancing Your Career with Josh Doody](https://egghead.io/podcasts/negotiating-your-salary-and-advancing-your-career-with-josh-doody){:rel="nofollow"} – egghead
39. [Salary Negotiation for DevOps with Josh Doody](https://www.realworlddevops.com/episodes/salary-negotiation-for-devops-with-josh-doody){:rel="nofollow"} – Real World DevOps
40. [Josh Doody, Fearless Salary Negotiation](https://www.whoagnv.com/events-calendar/2019/4/16/recording-josh-doody-fearless-salary-negotiation-ckcfw){:rel="nofollow"} – WHOA GNV
41. [How Online Courses Make Your Book More Actionable](https://www.zencourses.co/099){:rel="nofollow"} – Level Up Your Course
42. [Always Negotiate Job Offers but Never Name the First Number with Josh Doody](https://itcareerenergizer.com/e190){:rel="nofollow"} – I.T. Career Energizer
43. [How Software Developers Can Negotiate Better Salaries](https://www.screaminginthecloud.com/episodes/how-software-developers-can-negotiate-better-salaries-with-josh-doody){:rel="nofollow"} – Screaming in the Cloud
44. [Funnel Optimization Strategies: Josh Doody](https://segmetrics.io/articles/funnel-optimization-strategies-josh-doody/){:rel="nofollow"} – Data Beats Opinion
45. [Negotiating Salary](https://www.byuradio.org/episode/7e841f96-7045-4f3c-a68d-050bbeaee34f/7e841f96-7045-4f3c-a68d-050bbeaee34f?playhead=2054&autoplay=true){:rel="nofollow"} – The Lisa Show
46. [Episode 1 - Josh Doody](https://share.transistor.fm/s/7d00d218){:rel="nofollow"} – Full Stack Panic
47. [Stop, collaborate, get paid - Fearless Salary Negotiation w/ Josh Doody](https://share.transistor.fm/s/f08296c7){:rel="nofollow"} – Production Ready
48. [The Art of Salary Negotiation](https://careerbuilderspodcast.com/episodes/the-art-of-salary-negotiations-josh-doody){:rel="nofollow"} – The Career Builder's Podcast

## <a name="talks" class="below-nav">Talks

1. [Salary negotiation for engineers, developers, and designers](https://fearlesssalarynegotiation.com/salary-negotiation-for-engineers-developers-and-designers/){:rel="nofollow"} – The Orlando Devs
2. [Job interview preparation and salary negotiation workshop](http://www.intaadvising.gatech.edu/career/meet-and-greet-josh-doody-author-of-fearless-salary-negotiation-september-8th/){:rel="nofollow"} - Preparing Georgia Tech graduate students for Career Fair
3. [How to ace your job interviews](https://www.eng.ufl.edu/students/events/ace-job-interviews/){:rel="nofollow"} – Preparing University of Florida Engineering Students for Career Fair

Commit message:

Lisa show added for life-hacks WFH

media-appearances.md, after:

---
layout: post
title: Josh Doody and Fearless Salary Negotiation in the media
tagline: TV and Radio, Articles, Podcasts, and Talks
headline: Josh Doody and <br>Fearless Salary Negotiation <br>in the media
excerpt: TV and Radio, Articles, Podcasts, and Talks featuring Josh Doody and Fearless Salary Negotiation
last_modified_at: 2017-07-25
share_title: Fearless Salary Negotiation in the media
---
{% include fsn_bio.html %}

I love finding new audiences through articles and interviews, podcasts, and talks. This page is a good summary of other places where you can find my work.

For booking and interview requests, send me a message on [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/joshdoody).

To hire me as your salary negotiation coach, [click here]({{ site.baseurl }}/coach).

Learn more about [*Fearless Salary Negotiation*]({{ site.baseurl }}/get-started/).

## <a name="tv" class="below-nav">Television and Radio

A television interview with [Shaun Ley](https://twitter.com/bbcshaunley) on the [BBC News Channel](http://www.bbc.com/news/av/10318089/bbc-news-channel) about BBC gender pay disparity and how to negotiate your salary:

<div class="video-container">
	<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/RohE7VqgJK0" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</div><br>

<p>A radio interview with <a href="https://twitter.com/StephenNolan">Stephen Nolan</a> on <a href="http://www.bbc.co.uk/5live">BBC 5 Live</a>:  
	<audio controls>
	  <source src="/download/josh-doody-bbc-5-live-salary-negotiation-interview.mp3" ype="audio/mpeg">
	Or <a href="/download/josh-doody-bbc-5-live-salary-negotiation-interview.mp3">click here</a> to download the MP3 directly
	</audio>
</p>

## <a name="articles" class="below-nav">Articles

1. [9 Things to Never Say in a Salary Negotiation](https://www.glassdoor.com/blog/9-things-to-never-say-in-a-salary-negotiation/){:rel="nofollow"} – Glassdoor (also [Business Insider](http://www.businessinsider.com/9-things-you-should-never-say-during-a-salary-negotiation-2018-3){:rel="nofollow"}, [Fast Company](https://www.fastcompany.com/3068323/career-evolution/nine-words-and-phrases-to-avoid-when-youre-negotiating-a-salary){:rel="nofollow"}, [The Motley Fool](https://www.fool.com/careers/2017/10/30/9-things-to-never-say-in-a-salary-negotiation.aspx){:rel="nofollow"}, [Entrepreneur](https://www.entrepreneur.com/article/321120))
2. [How Do I Avoid Being Pigeonholed?](https://www.glassdoor.com/blog/how-do-i-avoid-being-pigeonholed/){:rel="nofollow"} – Glassdoor 
3. [Salary Negotiation Scripts For Any Job](https://www.glassdoor.com/blog/salary-negotiation-scripts-for-any-job/){:rel="nofollow"} – Glassdoor (also [Fast Company](https://www.fastcompany.com/40406763/exactly-what-to-say-in-these-four-common-salary-conversations{:rel="nofollow"}), [CNBC](http://www.cnbc.com/2017/06/15/salary-negotiation-scripts-for-any-job.html){:rel="nofollow"}, [MSN](https://www.msn.com/en-my/news/other/salary-negotiation-scripts-for-any-job/ar-BBCJUoI){:rel="nofollow"}, [Yahoo! Finance](https://ca.finance.yahoo.com/news/salary-negotiation-scripts-job-200600153.html){:rel="nofollow"})
4. [13 Must-Have Words to Include In Your Resume](https://www.glassdoor.com/blog/words-to-include-in-resume/){:rel="nofollow"} – Glassdoor (also [Business Insider](http://www.businessinsider.com/13-words-you-should-include-on-your-resume-according-to-a-panel-of-experts-2017-4){:rel="nofollow"}, [Entrepeneur](https://www.entrepreneur.com/article/334012){:rel="nofollow"})
5. [9 Reasons Why You Didn’t Get a Raise](https://www.glassdoor.com/blog/reasons-you-didnt-get-a-raise/){:rel="nofollow"} – Glassdoor 
6. [4 Ways to Score a Great Salary at Your First Job](https://www.glassdoor.com/blog/salary-first-job/){:rel="nofollow"} – Glassdoor 
7. [How to Negotiate Beyond the Raise You Were Offered?](https://www.glassdoor.com/blog/how-to-negotiate-beyond-the-raise-you-were-offered/){:rel="nofollow"} – Glassdoor 
8. [What To Do If You Don’t Want to Be A Manager, But Want More Money](https://www.glassdoor.com/blog/what-to-do-if-you-dont-want-to-be-a-manager-but-want-more-money/){:rel="nofollow"} – Glassdoor (also [CNBC](http://www.cnbc.com/2017/07/07/what-to-do-if-you-dont-want-to-be-a-manager-but-want-more-money.html){:rel="nofollow"}, [Yahoo! Finance](https://uk.finance.yahoo.com/news/don-t-want-manager-want-142800962.html))
9. [Why You Need to Start Skill Stacking](https://www.glassdoor.com/blog/skill-stacking/){:rel="nofollow"} – Glassdoor 
10. [11 Words and Phrases to Use in Salary Negotiations if You Want to Succeed](https://www.glassdoor.com/blog/words-phrases-to-use-salary-negotiations/){:rel="nofollow"} – Glassdoor (also [AOL](https://www.aol.com/article/finance/2017/08/09/11-words-and-phrases-to-use-in-salary-negotiations-if-you-want-t/23072259/){:rel="nofollow"})
11. [6 Things to Never Say to a Recruiter](https://www.glassdoor.com/blog/never-say-to-a-recruiter/){:rel="nofollow"} – Glassdoor (also [Fast Company](https://www.fastcompany.com/40563811/dont-tell-recruiters-these-things-if-you-want-the-job){:rel="nofollow"})
12. [Become a 'fearless salary negotiator' - the five things to do now](http://www.telegraph.co.uk/men/thinking-man/become-fearless-salary-negotiator-five-things-do-now/){:rel="nofollow"} (paywall) – The Telegraph
13. [How to negotiate a raise](http://www.forbes.com/sites/tomanderson/2016/07/06/how-to-negotiate-a-raise/#6dbd01246fa0){:rel="nofollow"} – Forbes.com
14. [11 ways to ruin a job interview according to three experts](http://www.independent.co.uk/news/business/news/11-ways-to-ruin-a-job-interview-according-to-three-experts-a6721271.html){:rel="nofollow"} – Independent.co.uk
15. [How to (successfully) ask for a raise](https://generalassemb.ly/blog/how-to-successfully-ask-for-a-raise/){:rel="nofollow"} – General Assembly Blog
16. [Interview with Engr. Josh Doody - Career Coach and author of Fearless Salary Negotiation](https://www.eeweb.com/spotlight/interview-with-engr-josh-doody){:rel="nofollow"} – EEWeb
17. [How to Negotiate Your Salary via Email](https://business.tutsplus.com/tutorials/how-to-negotiate-your-salary-via-email--cms-27031){:rel="nofollow"} – tuts+
18. [How to leap past 90% of applicants](https://purelyfunctional.tv/functional-programming-career-guide/resume-interview-salary/){:rel="nofollow"} – purelyfunctional.tv
19. [A simple process to negotiate your starting salary](http://www.lewis-lin.com/blog/2016/10/13/a-simple-process-to-negotiate-your-starting-salary){:rel="nofollow"} – lewis-lin.com
20. [What Shark Tank can teach us about career and business decisions](http://annieduke.com/annies-analysis/#what-shark-tank-can-teach-us-about-business-and-career-decisions){:rel="nofollow"} – annieduke.com
21. [How to ask for a promotion at work](http://interview-coach.co.uk/howtoaskforapromotion/){:rel="nofollow"} – interview-coach.co.uk
22. [Five salary negotiation tactics everyone can use to negotiate starting salary](http://interview-coach.co.uk/five-salary-negotiation-tactics-everyone-can-use-negotiate-starting-salary/){:rel="nofollow"} – interview-coach.co.uk
23. [Do you have to quit your job to get a big raise?](https://simpleprogrammer.com/2016/11/16/do-you-have-to-quit-your-job-to-get-a-big-raise/){:rel="nofollow"} – SimpleProgrammer.com
24. [How and when to ask for a raise at work—A 6-part series](https://www.paysa.com/blog/2017/01/16/the-cost-of-waiting-for-a-raise/){:rel="nofollow"} – paysa
25. [An interview coach says there’s a right way to answer the dreaded salary history question](https://qz.com/942800/an-interview-coach-says-theres-a-right-way-to-answer-the-dreaded-salary-history-question/){:rel="nofollow"} – Quartz
26. [This Is How You Get More Than the Standard Cost-of-Living Raise](https://www.themuse.com/advice/this-is-how-you-get-more-than-the-standard-costofliving-raise){:rel="nofollow"} – The Muse
27. [8 Things You Should Never Say to a Tech Recruiter](https://insights.dice.com/2018/08/20/8-things-never-say-tech-recruiter/){:rel="nofollow"} – Dice
28. [The Secret to Negotiating $5,000 – $15,000 More in Pay](https://www.glassdoor.com/blog/negotiation-secrets/){:rel="nofollow"} – Glassdoor
29. [Interviewing for a new job? Here's the best time to bring up salary](https://www.cnn.com/2019/04/10/success/salary-job-interview/index.html){:rel="nofollow"} – CNN
30. [This Is How Early You Should Arrive For A Job Interview](https://www.huffpost.com/entry/how-early-job-interview_l_5cabadfae4b02e7a705c1e15){:rel="nofollow"} – Huffpost
31. [Most Companies Are Sticking With 3 Percent Raises This Year. Here's What To Do About It.](https://www.huffpost.com/entry/three-percent-raise-negotiation-tips_l_5c6da28ae4b0f40774cb71ac){:rel="nofollow"} – Huffpost
32. [Here's What To Do When You Are Going To Be Late To A Job Interview](https://www.huffpost.com/entry/late-for-job-interview-tips_l_5cb4f26fe4b098b9a2d8a078){:rel="nofollow"} – Huffpost
33. [5 Seemingly Harmless Mistakes You Must Avoid In A Video Job Interview](https://www.huffpost.com/entry/video-interview-tips-mistakes_l_5cdd91f6e4b01571365d9f99?xb1){:rel="nofollow"} – Huffpost
34. [Got a job offer? Here's how to negotiate a counter offer with your current employer](https://www.cnn.com/2019/07/25/success/job-offer-leverage/index.html){:rel="nofollow"} – CNN Business
35. [What It Means When You Hear Silence After A Job Interview](https://www.huffpost.com/entry/hiring-manager-silence-explained_l_5d6e75a1e4b0110804550e08){:rel="nofollow"} – Huffpost
36. [How To Answer The 'Tell Me About Yourself' Question In A Job Interview](https://www.huffpost.com/entry/how-to-answer-tell-me-about-yourself-job-interview-question_l_5dc99dcde4b02bf5794433e2){:rel="nofollow"} – Huffpost
37. [How To Answer The Salary Expectations Question In A Job Interview](https://www.huffpost.com/entry/salary-expectations-question-job-interview_l_5dfa4ec2e4b0969b618ee923?6r4){:rel="nofollow"} – Huffpost
38. [What Do You Do With Multiple Offers From The Same Company?](https://www.glassdoor.com/blog/multiple-offers/){:rel="nofollow"} – Glassdoor
39. [The Email Subject Lines That Will Help You Get A Job](https://www.huffpost.com/entry/email-subject-lines-get-a-job_l_603d2323c5b617a7e40fb1b2){:rel="nofollow"} – Huffpost

## <a name="podcasts" class="below-nav">Podcasts

1. [Salary Negotiation with Josh Doody](http://www.kalzumeus.com/2016/06/03/kalzumeus-podcast-episode-12-salary-negotiation-with-josh-doody/){:rel="nofollow"} – Kalzumeus podcast with Patrick McKenzie
2. [Fearless Salary Negotiation – Josh Doody](http://engineeringinsightspodcast.com/episode25/){:rel="nofollow"} – Engineering Insights
3. [How to Improve Your Salary Negotiation Skills](http://www.careercloud.com/news/2016/5/7/how-to-improve-your-salary-negotiation-skills){:rel="nofollow"} – CareerCloud Radio
4. [Hiring Recruiters; Fearless Salary Negotiation for Recruiters](http://scottlove.libsyn.com/grt/episode-39-hiring-recruiters-fearless-salary-negotiation-for-recruiters-staffing){:rel="nofollow"} – Staffing & Recruiter Training Podcast
5. [Fearless Salary Negotiation with Josh Doody](http://www.careerdesigncoach.com/episode26){:rel="nofollow"} – Career Design Coach
6. [Josh Doody](https://soundcloud.com/productpeopleclub/ep-001-josh-doody){:rel="nofollow"} – Product People Club
7. [Get some guts](http://buildandlaunch.net/22/){:rel="nofollow"} – Build and Launch
8. [The Startup-Style Book Launch w/Josh Doody](http://www.chasingproduct.com/episodes/episode-35-the-startup-style-book-launch-wjosh-doody){:rel="nofollow"} – Chasing Product
9. [FearlessSalaryNegotiation.com](http://www.builtinadaypodcast.com/2016/04/24/episode-3/){:rel="nofollow"} – Built In A Day
10. [MASTERING The Interview Process & LinkedIn for Developers](https://soundcloud.com/starthere-webdev/26-level-up-your-web-dev-job-linkedin-for-developers-and-mastering-the-interview-process){:rel="nofollow"} – Start Here: Web Development
11. [How to Get a Better Job w/Higher Salary (Interviewing Series Salary Negotiation Masterclass)](https://soundcloud.com/starthere-webdev/how-to-get-a-better-job-with-higher-salary){:rel="nofollow"} – Start Here: Web Development
12. [Despite Upward Career Trajectory, Nothing Sparked His Imagination](http://www.discoveryourtalentpodcast.com/podcast/josh-doody/){:rel="nofollow"} – Discover Your Talent Do What You Love
13. [Salary Negotiation for Engineers](http://engineeringcareercoach.com/2016/05/17/tecc-115-salary-negotiation-engineers/){:rel="nofollow"} – The Engineering Career Coach
14. [Josh Doody, Fearless Salary Negotiation](https://www.copelandcoaching.com/2016/06/14/ccp104-josh-doody-fearless-salary-negotiation/){:rel="nofollow"} – Copeland Coaching Podcast
15. [Negotiating What You Are Worth with Josh Doody](http://happentoyourcareer.com/136) – Happen to Your Career
16. [How to negotiate your salary, with Josh Doody](http://www.graduatejobpodcast.com/salary/){:rel="nofollow"} – Graduate Job Podcast
17. [Expert Interview: How to Negotiate Your Salary Like a Pro](http://www.discoveryourtalentpodcast.com/podcast/josh-doody-2/){:rel="nofollow"} – Discover Your Talent Do What You Love
18. [Fearless Salary Negotiation with Josh Doody](https://devchat.tv/ruby-rogues/274-rr-fearless-salary-negotiation-with-josh-doody){:rel="nofollow"} – The Ruby Rogues
19. [How to get your next raise](https://www.macslist.org/ep-049-get-next-raise-josh-doody/){:rel="nofollow"} – Find Your Dream Job
20. [Josh Doody, Author of Fearless Salary Negotiation](https://soundcloud.com/dandanglobal/dailydandan33){:rel="nofollow"} – Daily Dandan
21. [Josh Doody on Salary Negotiation for Software Engineers](http://www.se-radio.net/2016/11/se-radio-episode-275-josh-doody-on-salary-negotiation-for-software-engineers/){:rel="nofollow"} – Software Engineering Radio
22. [Josh Doody Talks About How to Get Your First Development Job](https://www.angularonrails.com/josh-doody-talks-get-first-development-job/){:rel="nofollow"} – Angular on Rails
23. [Fearless Salary Negotiation Tips With Josh Doody](https://www.listenmoneymatters.com/salary-negotiation-tips/){:rel="nofollow"} – Listen Money Matters
24. [Josh Doody - Fearless Salary Negotiation](http://developeronfire.com/podcast/episode-217-josh-doody-fearless){:rel="nofollow"} – Developer on Fire
25. [Stripe Observability with Cory Watson](https://softwareengineeringdaily.com/2017/03/15/stripe-observability-with-cory-watson/){:rel="nofollow"} - Software Engineering Daily ("4 Salary Negotiation Tips" starting at the 1:02:50 mark)
26. [Salary Negotiations with Josh Doody](http://completedeveloperpodcast.com/episode-85/){:rel="nofollow"} – Complete Developer Podcast
27. [How to be a badass at making money](https://www.monster.com/career-advice/article/jen-sincero-badass-at-making-money-0517){:rel="nofollow"} – Jobsessed—A Monster podcast
28. [Josh Doody on Narrowing His Positioning, part 1](http://consultingpipelinepodcast.com/40){:rel="nofollow"} – The Consulting Pipeline Podcast
29. [From Full-Time Job to Full-Time Freelancing](http://www.100kfreelancing.com/0123-full-time-job-full-time-freelancing-wjosh-doody/){:rel="nofollow"} – $100k Freelancing
30. [Resumes, Interviews, and Negotiation with Josh Doody](http://msdevshow.com/2017/07/resumes-interviewing-and-negotation-with-josh-doody/){:rel="nofollow"} – MS Dev Show
31. [What Building a Successful Business Really Looks Like with Josh Doody](https://freelancetransformation.com/blog/what-building-a-successful-business-really-looks-like-with-josh-doody){:rel="nofollow"} – Freelance Transformation
32. [How to stand out and get paid more with Josh Doody](https://learntocodewith.me/podcast/how-to-get-paid-more-with-josh-doody/){:rel="nofollow"} – Learn to Code With Me
33. [How to Optimize for Opt-Ins and Conversions with Josh Doody](https://doubleyourfreelancing.com/season1-josh-doody/){:rel="nofollow"} – Double Your Freelancing
34. [Josh Doody talks about the biggest avoidable mistakes in salary negotiation](https://medium.com/@JBunky/people-stack-podcast-josh-doody-talks-about-the-biggest-avoidable-mistakes-in-salary-negotiation-ff551a531bd3){:rel="nofollow"} – People Stack Podcast
35. [Josh Doody on Narrowing His Positioning, part 1](http://consultingpipelinepodcast.com/40){:rel="nofollow"} – The Consulting Pipeline Podcast
36. [Josh Doody updates us on his narrowed market position 1 year in](http://consultingpipelinepodcast.com/117){:rel="nofollow"} – The Consulting Pipeline Podcast
37. [Josh Doody on Why, When, and How to Niche Your Business](https://rezzz.com/podcast/josh-doody-on-why-when-and-how-to-niche-your-business/){:rel="nofollow"} – Live in the Feast
38. [Negotiating Your Salary and Advancing Your Career with Josh Doody](https://egghead.io/podcasts/negotiating-your-salary-and-advancing-your-career-with-josh-doody){:rel="nofollow"} – egghead
39. [Salary Negotiation for DevOps with Josh Doody](https://www.realworlddevops.com/episodes/salary-negotiation-for-devops-with-josh-doody){:rel="nofollow"} – Real World DevOps
40. [Josh Doody, Fearless Salary Negotiation](https://www.whoagnv.com/events-calendar/2019/4/16/recording-josh-doody-fearless-salary-negotiation-ckcfw){:rel="nofollow"} – WHOA GNV
41. [How Online Courses Make Your Book More Actionable](https://www.zencourses.co/099){:rel="nofollow"} – Level Up Your Course
42. [Always Negotiate Job Offers but Never Name the First Number with Josh Doody](https://itcareerenergizer.com/e190){:rel="nofollow"} – I.T. Career Energizer
43. [How Software Developers Can Negotiate Better Salaries](https://www.screaminginthecloud.com/episodes/how-software-developers-can-negotiate-better-salaries-with-josh-doody){:rel="nofollow"} – Screaming in the Cloud
44. [Funnel Optimization Strategies: Josh Doody](https://segmetrics.io/articles/funnel-optimization-strategies-josh-doody/){:rel="nofollow"} – Data Beats Opinion
45. [Negotiating Salary](https://www.byuradio.org/episode/7e841f96-7045-4f3c-a68d-050bbeaee34f/7e841f96-7045-4f3c-a68d-050bbeaee34f?playhead=2054&autoplay=true){:rel="nofollow"} – The Lisa Show
46. [Episode 1 - Josh Doody](https://share.transistor.fm/s/7d00d218){:rel="nofollow"} – Full Stack Panic
47. [Stop, collaborate, get paid - Fearless Salary Negotiation w/ Josh Doody](https://share.transistor.fm/s/f08296c7){:rel="nofollow"} – Production Ready
48. [The Art of Salary Negotiation](https://careerbuilderspodcast.com/episodes/the-art-of-salary-negotiations-josh-doody){:rel="nofollow"} – The Career Builder's Podcast
49. [Working From Home Life-Hacks](https://www.byuradio.org/f0964b19-4ade-4c51-bde5-f15aaef8e6d5){:rel="nofollow"} – The Lisa Show

## <a name="talks" class="below-nav">Talks

1. [Salary negotiation for engineers, developers, and designers](https://fearlesssalarynegotiation.com/salary-negotiation-for-engineers-developers-and-designers/){:rel="nofollow"} – The Orlando Devs
2. [Job interview preparation and salary negotiation workshop](http://www.intaadvising.gatech.edu/career/meet-and-greet-josh-doody-author-of-fearless-salary-negotiation-september-8th/){:rel="nofollow"} - Preparing Georgia Tech graduate students for Career Fair
3. [How to ace your job interviews](https://www.eng.ufl.edu/students/events/ace-job-interviews/){:rel="nofollow"} – Preparing University of Florida Engineering Students for Career Fair
