salary-negotiation-guide.md, before:

---
layout: post
title: Salary Negotiation Guide
headline: Salary Negotiation Guide
tagline: How to negotiate your salary and get paid what you're worth
excerpt: A complete salary negotiation guide for negotiating starting salary, getting a raise, and getting paid what you're worth throughout your career
context: negotiate
last_modified_at: 2017-08-28
---

Let's walk through the entire salary negotiation process so you can see what it's like from end to end.

## Where are you in the salary negotiation process?

 * [No job offer yet](#before-job-offer){:data-template="Before job offer"}{:data-action="Choose salary negotiation stage"}
 * [Just got a job offer](#job-offer-in-hand){:data-template="Job offer in hand"}{:data-action="Choose salary negotiation stage"}
 * [Already counter offered](#counter-offer-sent){:data-template="Counter offer sent"}{:data-action="Choose salary negotiation stage"}
 * [Through negotiating](#negotiation-complete){:data-template="Negotiation complete"}{:data-action="Choose salary negotiation stage"}

Ready to get started?

## <a name="before-job-offer" class="below-nav">Before you get a job offer

Your salary negotiation will begin *before* you get a job offer. There are two things you need to do to get ready for your job offer and make sure you're ready to negotiate the best salary possible.

### How to answer the "What's your current or expected salary?" interview question

<p class='u-center'><a href="/the-dreaded-salary-question/" target="_blank"><img src="{{ site.baseurl }}/images/DreadedSalaryQuestion.png" alt="The current and expected salary question" style="display: block; width: 100%; max-width: 900px; margin: 0 auto;"/></a></p>

The salary negotiation could literally begin with your very first conversation with someone at the company you're considering. That first call is often called the "pre-screen" or "pre-interview", and you'll often talk with an internal recruiter at the company.

This is usually a short conversation—5–10 minutes at most—where the recruiter will explore whether it's worth while to schedule further interviews with you for the position you're pursuing.

And there's an awkward moment that comes up in almost every one of these calls. You've probably been asked "What's your current or expected salary?" in an interview before. That's what you're looking out for.

[Learn how to answer the "What's your current or expected salary?" question →](/the-dreaded-salary-question/)

### Set your minimum acceptable salary before you get an offer

<p class='u-center'><a href="/minimum-acceptable-salary/" target="_blank"><img src="{{ site.baseurl }}/images/MinimumAcceptableSalary.png" alt="What is your minimum acceptable salary?" style="display: block; width: 100%; max-width: 900px; margin: 0 auto;"/></a></p>

There's one more thing you need to do before you get your job offer: Set your walk-alway number. This is a crucial step in your salary negotiation because it sets you up for a win-win result: Either the company meets or exceeds this number, and you start your job knowing you're paid enough to justify the work you will be doing, or they do not meet your number and you walk away knowing you made the right decision because they could not pay you enough to do the job.

[Learn how to set your minimum acceptable salary before you get your job offer →](/minimum-acceptable-salary/)

By avoiding sharing your salary history or compensation expectations, you'll give yourself the most opportunity to negotiate the highest salary possible. By setting your minimum acceptable salary before you get your job offer, you'll give yourself an objective way to evaluate the final result of your negotiation so you can make the best decision about whether to accept the job.

## <a name="job-offer-in-hand" class="below-nav">Once you have your job offer

Now it's time to start negotiating your starting salary. Here's how.

### Ask for time to consider the job offer

First things first, ask for time to consider the offer. This seems so simple, but there are a lot of good reasons to do this.

First, you need time to determine your best negotiation strategy based on their offer, your minimum acceptable salary, and other factors. This takes time and you don't want to rush it. 

Second, your best bet is to reply to any job offer with an email. You'll be able to clearly articulate your case, make a specific counter offer, and avoid any sort of miscommunication as to what you were offered and what you're requesting.

[Get scripts to ask for time to consider the offer verbally or via email →](/salary-negotiation-email-sample/#ask-for-time-template)

### Choose your salary negotiation strategy based on their offer and your minimum acceptable salary

Remember when you set your minimum acceptable salary *before* they made you an offer? This is why: Now that you have the offer, you can compare your minimum to it and determine if you can negotiate with a standard, straightforward counter offer, or if you need to use more advanced tactics to try to get them to improve the offer so you can negotiate it normally.

#### When you get a lowball job offer

<p class='u-center'><a href="/how-to-negotiate-a-lowball-job-offer/" target="_blank"><img src="/images/LowballJobOffer.png" alt="How to negotiate a lowball job offer" style="display: block; width: 100%; max-width: 900px; margin: 0 auto;"/></a></p>

If your offer is more than 20% below your minimum acceptable salary, you'll need a different strategy to save the negotiation. As it stands, their offer is very far away from your minimum, which means you can't and won't accept the offer as-is.

Before you continue with your salary negotiation, you need to see if you can get a new offer that can be negotiated up to your minimum. You'll start with the "lowball technique", get the best result possible, and then move on to calculating your counter offer.

[Learn how to negotiate a lowball job offer →](/how-to-negotiate-a-lowball-job-offer/)

#### When your offer is *not* a lowball offer

This is much easier: Just continue with the standard salary negotiation process outlined in this guide.

### Calculate your counter offer

Now you have your job offer, you have your minimum acceptable salary, and you need to counter offer. But first, you need to determine how much to counter offer.

This process is pretty straight forward.

#### When your offer is at least 20% below your minimum acceptable salary

If you received a lowball offer and were not able to get it improved, your counter offer will be your minimum acceptable salary.

[Use this email template to counter offer with your minimum acceptable salary →](/salary-negotiation-email-sample/#counter-minimum-template)

#### When your offer can be negotiated using standard techniques

<p class='u-center'><a href="/salary-negotiation-script/" target="_blank"><img src="/images/SalaryNegotiationScript.png" alt="How to counter a job offer - salary negotiation script & calculator" style="display: block; width: 100%; max-width: 900px; margin: 0 auto;"/></a></p>

If your offer is not a lowball offer, then your counter offer will be 10–20% above their offer. Ten percent means that you don't have any particular reason to believe they're compelled to hire you. Twenty percent means you have reason to believe that they want you specifically in this role and they're willing to work to make that happen.

You can use the *Fearless Salary Negotiation* counter offer calculator to determine the appropriate counter offer for your specific situation.

[Determine your counter offer with the counter offer calculator →](/salary-negotiation-script/)

### Send a salary negotiation email with your counter offer and your case

<p class='u-center'><a href="/salary-negotiation-email-sample/" target="_blank"><img src="/images/SalaryNegotiationEmailSample.png" alt="Salary negotiation email sample - free counter offer letter templates" style="display: block; width: 100%; max-width: 900px; margin: 0 auto;"/></a></p>

Once you've determined your counter offer, it's time to formally begin your starting salary negotiation by counter offering. 

When in doubt, use the [baseline salary negotiation email template](/salary-negotiation-email-sample/#baseline-counter-template) to send your counter offer.

But there are several unique situations that might call for a slightly modified version of the salary negotiation email template, so you might want to consult this article—look specifically at the table of contents up top—to find the right template for you:

[Salary negotiation email templates →](/salary-negotiation-email-sample/)

## <a name="counter-offer-sent" class="below-nav">After you send your counter offer

Once you've sent your counter offer, you should immediately begin preparing for your Final Discussion. This is what most people think of when they think of "salary negotiation". It's a very short phone call—usually just a few minutes—where the recruiter or hiring manager will respond to your counter offer, and you'll have your final opportunity to maximize your base salary and other non-salary benefits that are important to you.

### What non-salary benefits do you care most about?

Most of the time, your goal will be to maximize your starting salary. But you may also want to negotiate for other non-salary benefits like vacation time, signing bonus, relocation stipend, or additional equity, and now is the time to choose your top three non-salary benefits to focus on.

Once you have identified your top three non-salary benefits, you have everything you need to plan for your Final Discussion.

Here are all the inputs you need to write your salary negotiation script:

* Their offer amount
* Your counter offer amount
* Your minimum acceptable salary
* Your top three non-salary benefits

[Get a summary of your inputs for your salary negotiation script →](/salary-negotiation-script/)

### Writing your salary negotiation script for the Final Discussion

With those items ready to go, you can write the script you'll use for negotiating your salary on your final call with the recruiter or hiring manager. This is a *crucial* step for your salary negotiation for two reasons:

1. Although most of the heavy lifting for your negotiation was finished when you counter offered, there's still room to negotiate and improve your offer.
2. The Final Discussion happens *very* quickly, and you're likely to miss an opportunity to improve your offer if you don't have a script to guide you through the discussion.

[Write your salary negotiation script using this example as your guide →](/salary-negotiation-script-example/)

#### Practice, practice, practice!

Run your script a few times before your Final Discussion. If you can find someone to play the role of recruiter, have them respond to your counter offer so you can use your script to negotiate with them. Even just going through the script a few times will give you a feel for how this conversation will go, making you much more comfortable when it's time for the real thing.

### The Final Discussion

With your script in hand, you're ready for your Final Discussion. The recruiter or hiring manager will call you and respond to your counter offer. Because you have your script prepared and you've practiced it, you're ready to go. This call will only last a few minutes, and it'll be over before you know it!

## <a name="negotiation-complete" class="below-nav">After you negotiate your salary

<p class='u-center'><a href="/resignation-letter/" target="_blank"><img src="/images/ResignationLetterTemplate.png" alt="Resignation letter templates - free, simple example emails" style="display: block; width: 100%; max-width: 900px; margin: 0 auto;"/></a></p>

Once you've finalized your compensation package and set your start date, you'll need to wrap things up at your current company. It's easy to gloss over this step because you're so excited for your new opportunity, but make sure you tie up all loose ends and leave on the best possible terms!

### Tendering your resignation

Once you know your start date for your new role, you should put in your notice at your current job. It's standard to give two weeks notice, but you might consider offering to stick around longer if you need more time to wrap everything up and transition all of your work to someone else before you go.

[Use this resignation letter template to give your notice →](/resignation-letter/)

### Expand your professional network before you leave your current job

On your last day at your current job, you have a great opportunity to leave on good terms and expand your professional network. This is crucial because you may get great future jobs from your professional network. To make sure people know how to find you when they have a great opportunity for you, let them know how to get in touch.

[Use this email template to say goodbye to your coworkers on your final day →](/resignation-letter/#last-day-template)

<div class="inline-ad hidden"></div>

Commit message:

removed branding from title - Google will handle it; salary negotiation guide has og-image and better intro; still needs raise stuff

salary-negotiation-guide.md, after:

---
layout: post
title: Salary Negotiation Guide - How to negotiate your salary like a pro
headline: Salary Negotiation Guide -<br>How to negotiate your salary like a pro
tagline: Salary negotiation strategies and techniques for negotiating a job offer and getting a raise
excerpt: A detailed salary negotiation guide for negotiating starting salary, getting a raise, and getting paid what you're worth throughout your career
context: negotiate
og-image: SalaryNegotiationGuide.png
last_modified_at: 2017-08-29
---
Salary negotiation is a cycle that repeats throughout your career. You interview for a new position, negotiate a job offer, leave your old position, start your new job, ask for a raise or two, seek out new opportunities and begin interviewing and negotiating all over again. 

You might do this dozens of times throughout your career, but the salary negotiation process will always be the same. All that changes is where you currently are in this salary negotiation cycle.

Use this salary negotiation guide to jump right to your current stage in the salary negotiation cycle and learn the valuable strategies and tactics to get paid what you're worth by negotiating starting salary or asking for a raise.

## Where are you in the salary negotiation cycle?

 * [Currently interviewing](#currently-interviewing){:data-template="Currently interviewing"}{:data-action="Choose salary negotiation stage"}
 * [Just got a job offer](#job-offer-in-hand){:data-template="Job offer in hand"}{:data-action="Choose salary negotiation stage"}
 * [Currently negotiating](#currently-negotiating){:data-template="Currently negotiating"}{:data-action="Choose salary negotiation stage"}
 * [Finished negotiating](#negotiation-complete){:data-template="Negotiation complete"}{:data-action="Choose salary negotiation stage"}

Ready to get started?

## <a name="currently-interviewing" class="below-nav">Currently interviewing - no job offer yet

Your salary negotiation will begin *before* you get a job offer. There are two things you need to do to get ready for your job offer and make sure you're ready to negotiate the best salary possible.

### How to answer the "What's your current or expected salary?" interview question

<p class='u-center'><a href="/the-dreaded-salary-question/" target="_blank"><img src="{{ site.baseurl }}/images/DreadedSalaryQuestion.png" alt="The current and expected salary question" style="display: block; width: 100%; max-width: 900px; margin: 0 auto;"/></a></p>

The salary negotiation could literally begin with your very first conversation with someone at the company you're considering. That first call is often called the "pre-screen" or "pre-interview", and you'll often talk with an internal recruiter at the company.

This is usually a short conversation—5–10 minutes at most—where the recruiter will explore whether it's worth while to schedule further interviews with you for the position you're pursuing.

And there's an awkward moment that comes up in almost every one of these calls. You've probably been asked "What's your current or expected salary?" in an interview before. That's what you're looking out for.

[Learn how to answer the "What's your current or expected salary?" question →](/the-dreaded-salary-question/)

### Set your minimum acceptable salary before you get an offer

<p class='u-center'><a href="/minimum-acceptable-salary/" target="_blank"><img src="{{ site.baseurl }}/images/MinimumAcceptableSalary.png" alt="What is your minimum acceptable salary?" style="display: block; width: 100%; max-width: 900px; margin: 0 auto;"/></a></p>

There's one more thing you need to do before you get your job offer: Set your walk-alway number. This is a crucial step in your salary negotiation because it sets you up for a win-win result: Either the company meets or exceeds this number, and you start your job knowing you're paid enough to justify the work you will be doing, or they do not meet your number and you walk away knowing you made the right decision because they could not pay you enough to do the job.

[Learn how to set your minimum acceptable salary before you get your job offer →](/minimum-acceptable-salary/)

By avoiding sharing your salary history or compensation expectations, you'll give yourself the most opportunity to negotiate the highest salary possible. By setting your minimum acceptable salary before you get your job offer, you'll give yourself an objective way to evaluate the final result of your negotiation so you can make the best decision about whether to accept the job.

## <a name="job-offer-in-hand" class="below-nav">Once you have your job offer in hand

Now it's time to start negotiating your starting salary. Here's how.

### Ask for time to consider the job offer

First things first, ask for time to consider the offer. This seems so simple, but there are a lot of good reasons to do this.

First, you need time to determine your best negotiation strategy based on their offer, your minimum acceptable salary, and other factors. This takes time and you don't want to rush it. 

Second, your best bet is to reply to any job offer with an email. You'll be able to clearly articulate your case, make a specific counter offer, and avoid any sort of miscommunication as to what you were offered and what you're requesting.

[Get scripts to ask for time to consider the offer verbally or via email →](/salary-negotiation-email-sample/#ask-for-time-template)

### Choose your salary negotiation strategy based on their offer and your minimum acceptable salary

Remember when you set your minimum acceptable salary *before* they made you an offer? This is why: Now that you have the offer, you can compare your minimum to it and determine if you can negotiate with a standard, straightforward counter offer, or if you need to use more advanced tactics to try to get them to improve the offer so you can negotiate it normally.

#### When you get a lowball job offer

<p class='u-center'><a href="/how-to-negotiate-a-lowball-job-offer/" target="_blank"><img src="/images/LowballJobOffer.png" alt="How to negotiate a lowball job offer" style="display: block; width: 100%; max-width: 900px; margin: 0 auto;"/></a></p>

If your offer is more than 20% below your minimum acceptable salary, you'll need a different strategy to save the negotiation. As it stands, their offer is very far away from your minimum, which means you can't and won't accept the offer as-is.

Before you continue with your salary negotiation, you need to see if you can get a new offer that can be negotiated up to your minimum. You'll start with the "lowball technique", get the best result possible, and then move on to calculating your counter offer.

[Learn how to negotiate a lowball job offer →](/how-to-negotiate-a-lowball-job-offer/)

#### When your offer is *not* a lowball offer

This is much easier: Just continue with the standard salary negotiation process outlined in this guide.

### Calculate your counter offer

Now you have your job offer, you have your minimum acceptable salary, and you need to counter offer. But first, you need to determine how much to counter offer.

This process is pretty straight forward.

#### When your offer is at least 20% below your minimum acceptable salary

If you received a lowball offer and were not able to get it improved, your counter offer will be your minimum acceptable salary.

[Use this email template to counter offer with your minimum acceptable salary →](/salary-negotiation-email-sample/#counter-minimum-template)

#### When your offer can be negotiated using standard techniques

<p class='u-center'><a href="/salary-negotiation-script/" target="_blank"><img src="/images/SalaryNegotiationScript.png" alt="How to counter a job offer - salary negotiation script & calculator" style="display: block; width: 100%; max-width: 900px; margin: 0 auto;"/></a></p>

If your offer is not a lowball offer, then your counter offer will be 10–20% above their offer. Ten percent means that you don't have any particular reason to believe they're compelled to hire you. Twenty percent means you have reason to believe that they want you specifically in this role and they're willing to work to make that happen.

You can use the *Fearless Salary Negotiation* counter offer calculator to determine the appropriate counter offer for your specific situation.

[Determine your counter offer with the counter offer calculator →](/salary-negotiation-script/)

### Send a salary negotiation email with your counter offer and your case

<p class='u-center'><a href="/salary-negotiation-email-sample/" target="_blank"><img src="/images/SalaryNegotiationEmailSample.png" alt="Salary negotiation email sample - free counter offer letter templates" style="display: block; width: 100%; max-width: 900px; margin: 0 auto;"/></a></p>

Once you've determined your counter offer, it's time to formally begin your starting salary negotiation by counter offering. 

When in doubt, use the [baseline salary negotiation email template](/salary-negotiation-email-sample/#baseline-counter-template) to send your counter offer.

But there are several unique situations that might call for a slightly modified version of the salary negotiation email template, so you might want to consult this article—look specifically at the table of contents up top—to find the right template for you:

[Salary negotiation email templates →](/salary-negotiation-email-sample/)

## <a name="currently-negotiating" class="below-nav">Currently negotiating - after you send your counter offer

Once you've sent your counter offer, you should immediately begin preparing for your Final Discussion. This is what most people think of when they think of "salary negotiation". It's a very short phone call—usually just a few minutes—where the recruiter or hiring manager will respond to your counter offer, and you'll have your final opportunity to maximize your base salary and other non-salary benefits that are important to you.

### What non-salary benefits do you care most about?

Most of the time, your goal will be to maximize your starting salary. But you may also want to negotiate for other non-salary benefits like vacation time, signing bonus, relocation stipend, or additional equity, and now is the time to choose your top three non-salary benefits to focus on.

Once you have identified your top three non-salary benefits, you have everything you need to plan for your Final Discussion.

Here are all the inputs you need to write your salary negotiation script:

* Their offer amount
* Your counter offer amount
* Your minimum acceptable salary
* Your top three non-salary benefits

[Get a summary of your inputs for your salary negotiation script →](/salary-negotiation-script/)

### Writing your salary negotiation script for the Final Discussion

With those items ready to go, you can write the script you'll use for negotiating your salary on your final call with the recruiter or hiring manager. This is a *crucial* step for your salary negotiation for two reasons:

1. Although most of the heavy lifting for your negotiation was finished when you counter offered, there's still room to negotiate and improve your offer.
2. The Final Discussion happens *very* quickly, and you're likely to miss an opportunity to improve your offer if you don't have a script to guide you through the discussion.

[Write your salary negotiation script using this example as your guide →](/salary-negotiation-script-example/)

#### Practice, practice, practice!

Run your script a few times before your Final Discussion. If you can find someone to play the role of recruiter, have them respond to your counter offer so you can use your script to negotiate with them. Even just going through the script a few times will give you a feel for how this conversation will go, making you much more comfortable when it's time for the real thing.

### The Final Discussion

With your script in hand, you're ready for your Final Discussion. The recruiter or hiring manager will call you and respond to your counter offer. Because you have your script prepared and you've practiced it, you're ready to go. This call will only last a few minutes, and it'll be over before you know it!

## <a name="negotiation-complete" class="below-nav">After you finished negotiating your salary

<p class='u-center'><a href="/resignation-letter/" target="_blank"><img src="/images/ResignationLetterTemplate.png" alt="Resignation letter templates - free, simple example emails" style="display: block; width: 100%; max-width: 900px; margin: 0 auto;"/></a></p>

Once you've finalized your compensation package and set your start date, you'll need to wrap things up at your current company. It's easy to gloss over this step because you're so excited for your new opportunity, but make sure you tie up all loose ends and leave on the best possible terms!

### Tendering your resignation

Once you know your start date for your new role, you should put in your notice at your current job. It's standard to give two weeks notice, but you might consider offering to stick around longer if you need more time to wrap everything up and transition all of your work to someone else before you go.

[Use this resignation letter template to give your notice →](/resignation-letter/)

### Expand your professional network before you leave your current job

On your last day at your current job, you have a great opportunity to leave on good terms and expand your professional network. This is crucial because you may get great future jobs from your professional network. To make sure people know how to find you when they have a great opportunity for you, let them know how to get in touch.

[Use this email template to say goodbye to your coworkers on your final day →](/resignation-letter/#last-day-template)

<div class="inline-ad hidden"></div>
