testimonials.md, before:

---
layout: post
title: Testimonials for salary negotiation coaching, public speaking, and Fearless Salary Negotiation
tagline: Real testimonials and stories from real people
excerpt: Testimonials for salary negotiation coaching, public speaking, and Fearless Salary Negotiation
last_modified_at: 2017-05-25
---
Looking for testimonials for a particular product or offering?

 * [Salary Negotiation Coaching](#coaching){:data-testimonial-topic="Coaching testimonials"}
 * [Fearless Salary Negotiation](#fsn){:data-testimonial-topic="Fearless Salary Negotiation testimonials"}
 * [Get Your Next Raise](#gynr){:data-testimonial-topic="Get Your Next Raise testimonials"}
 * [Speaking](#speaking){:data-testimonial-topic="Speaking testimonials"}
 * [Endorsements](#endorsements){:data-testimonial-topic="Endorsement testimonials"}
 
## <a name="coaching" class="below-nav">Salary Negotiation Coaching

As a professional salary negotiation coach, I specialize in working with experienced software developers who are moving into a new opportunity with a new company. But I also work with clients from all backgrounds as they work to improve at job interviews and salary negotiations.

My clients improve their job offers by an average of {{ site.avg_coach_increase }}.

Learn more about my coaching offering here: [Expert Salary Negotiation Coaching](/coach/)

{% include testimonials/bob_gregor.html %}

{% include testimonials/acree_m.html %}

{% include testimonials/shannon_long.html %}

{% include testimonials/eric_macam.html %}

{% include testimonials/j_w.html %}

{% include testimonials/shawn_tuckett.html %}

{% include testimonials/s_l.html %}

{% include testimonials/jonathan.html %}

{% include testimonials/natalie_m.html %}

{% include testimonials/emily_kaneff.html %}

{% include testimonials/e_l.html %}

{% include testimonials/ilya_krasnov.html %}

{% include testimonials/nick_cianci.html %}

{% include testimonials/j_c.html %}

{% include testimonials/j_n.html %}

<!-- {% include testimonials/haripriya_a.html %} -->

<!-- {% include testimonials/tiffani_w.html %} -->

## <a name="fsn" class="below-nav">*Fearless Salary Negotiation*

If my salary negotiation coaching offering isn't a good fit for you, *Fearless Salary Negotiation* is a detailed summary of the strategy and tactics I use to coach my clients who improve their salaries by thousands of dollars on average.

If you're looking for a DIY salary negotiation option, *Fearless Salary Negotiation* is for you.

Learn more: [*Fearless Salary Negotiation*](/get-started/)

{% include testimonials/jared_allen.html %}

{% include testimonials/justin_abrahms.html %}

{% include testimonials/harrison_p.html %}

{% include testimonials/dan_brothers.html %}

{% include testimonials/josh_c.html %}

{% include testimonials/john_miller.html %}

{% include testimonials/holly_stewart.html %}

{% include testimonials/mike_g.html %}

{% include testimonials/t_k.html %}

{% include testimonials/d_o.html %}

{% include testimonials/david_hill.html %}

{% include testimonials/j_d.html %}

{% include testimonials/matt_wood.html %}

{% include testimonials/jason_voegele.html %}

{% include testimonials/josh_thompson.html %}

{% include testimonials/aaron_batilo.html %}

## <a name="gynr" class="below-nav">*Get Your Next Raise*
	
If you know you're underpaid and want to get a raise at your current job, *Get Your Next Raise* is exactly what you need. it's a comprehensive course with clear instructions, specific action items, accountability, and direct feedback from me as you build your case and ask for a raise.

If 1-on-1 coaching isn't feasible for you right now, this is my unique process for getting a raise delivered in a personal, self-paced course to help you get your next raise.

Learn more: [*Get Your Next Raise*](/get-your-next-raise/)

{% include testimonials/john_li.html %}

{% include testimonials/thai_wood.html %}

## <a name="speaking" class="below-nav">Public Speaking—Talks, Seminars, Webinars

I'm available for talks, seminars, and webinars to teach your students how to ace their interviews and negotiate the best possible job offer without leaving anything on the table.

Message me on LinkedIn to laern more: [Josh Doody on LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/joshdoody)

{% include testimonials/robbie_ouzts.html %}

{% include testimonials/joel_parker.html %}

## <a name="endorsements" class="below-nav">Endorsements
	
Here are some very kind folks' thoughts on *Fearless Salary Negotiation*.

{% include testimonials/josh_kaufman.html %}

{% include testimonials/patrick_mckenzie_short.html %}

Commit message:

tiffani testimonial live; harrison testimonial typo fixed

testimonials.md, after:

---
layout: post
title: Testimonials for salary negotiation coaching, public speaking, and Fearless Salary Negotiation
tagline: Real testimonials and stories from real people
excerpt: Testimonials for salary negotiation coaching, public speaking, and Fearless Salary Negotiation
last_modified_at: 2017-05-25
---
Looking for testimonials for a particular product or offering?

 * [Salary Negotiation Coaching](#coaching){:data-testimonial-topic="Coaching testimonials"}
 * [Fearless Salary Negotiation](#fsn){:data-testimonial-topic="Fearless Salary Negotiation testimonials"}
 * [Get Your Next Raise](#gynr){:data-testimonial-topic="Get Your Next Raise testimonials"}
 * [Speaking](#speaking){:data-testimonial-topic="Speaking testimonials"}
 * [Endorsements](#endorsements){:data-testimonial-topic="Endorsement testimonials"}
 
## <a name="coaching" class="below-nav">Salary Negotiation Coaching

As a professional salary negotiation coach, I specialize in working with experienced software developers who are moving into a new opportunity with a new company. But I also work with clients from all backgrounds as they work to improve at job interviews and salary negotiations, or take the next step in their careers.

My clients improve their job offers by an average of {{ site.avg_coach_increase }}.

Learn more about my coaching offering here: [Expert Salary Negotiation Coaching](/coach/)

{% include testimonials/bob_gregor.html %}

{% include testimonials/acree_m.html %}

{% include testimonials/shannon_long.html %}

{% include testimonials/eric_macam.html %}

{% include testimonials/j_w.html %}

{% include testimonials/shawn_tuckett.html %}

{% include testimonials/s_l.html %}

{% include testimonials/jonathan.html %}

{% include testimonials/natalie_m.html %}

{% include testimonials/emily_kaneff.html %}

{% include testimonials/e_l.html %}

{% include testimonials/ilya_krasnov.html %}

{% include testimonials/nick_cianci.html %}

{% include testimonials/j_c.html %}

{% include testimonials/j_n.html %}

{% include testimonials/tiffani_w.html %}

<!-- {% include testimonials/haripriya_a.html %} -->

## <a name="fsn" class="below-nav">*Fearless Salary Negotiation*

If my salary negotiation coaching offering isn't a good fit for you, *Fearless Salary Negotiation* is a detailed summary of the strategy and tactics I use to coach my clients who improve their salaries by thousands of dollars on average.

If you're looking for a DIY salary negotiation option, *Fearless Salary Negotiation* is for you.

Learn more: [*Fearless Salary Negotiation*](/get-started/)

{% include testimonials/jared_allen.html %}

{% include testimonials/justin_abrahms.html %}

{% include testimonials/harrison_p.html %}

{% include testimonials/dan_brothers.html %}

{% include testimonials/josh_c.html %}

{% include testimonials/john_miller.html %}

{% include testimonials/holly_stewart.html %}

{% include testimonials/mike_g.html %}

{% include testimonials/t_k.html %}

{% include testimonials/d_o.html %}

{% include testimonials/david_hill.html %}

{% include testimonials/j_d.html %}

{% include testimonials/matt_wood.html %}

{% include testimonials/jason_voegele.html %}

{% include testimonials/josh_thompson.html %}

{% include testimonials/aaron_batilo.html %}

## <a name="gynr" class="below-nav">*Get Your Next Raise*
	
If you know you're underpaid and want to get a raise at your current job, *Get Your Next Raise* is exactly what you need. it's a comprehensive course with clear instructions, specific action items, accountability, and direct feedback from me as you build your case and ask for a raise.

If 1-on-1 coaching isn't feasible for you right now, this is my unique process for getting a raise delivered in a personal, self-paced course to help you get your next raise.

Learn more: [*Get Your Next Raise*](/get-your-next-raise/)

{% include testimonials/john_li.html %}

{% include testimonials/thai_wood.html %}

## <a name="speaking" class="below-nav">Public Speaking—Talks, Seminars, Webinars

I'm available for talks, seminars, and webinars to teach your students how to ace their interviews and negotiate the best possible job offer without leaving anything on the table.

Message me on LinkedIn to laern more: [Josh Doody on LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/joshdoody)

{% include testimonials/robbie_ouzts.html %}

{% include testimonials/joel_parker.html %}

## <a name="endorsements" class="below-nav">Endorsements
	
Here are some very kind folks' thoughts on *Fearless Salary Negotiation*.

{% include testimonials/josh_kaufman.html %}

{% include testimonials/patrick_mckenzie_short.html %}
