_book_excerpts/interview/post-interview-check-in-email.md, before:

---
layout: book_excerpt
title: How to check in after your job interviews
tagline: Wait about a week and send a follow-up 
excerpt: You should follow up weekly for at least a few weeks after your job interview to stay on the company's radar.
last_modified_at: 2016-06-25
chapter: interview
section: 10
---

Some companies will let you know if they decide not to move forward with you, and some companies won’t. It’s difficult to know which you’re dealing with, so you may want to send one more follow-up email after about a week to make sure they haven’t forgotten about you. 

In this example, "Shawn" is the recruiter you've been working with and "Andy" is the hiring manager who interviewed you last.

## A sample check-in email you can send to the recruiter you've been working with

<hr>
<div class='u-highlight'>
<p>
	<strong><u>To:</u></strong> Shawn Jones <shawn.jones@example.com><br>
	<strong><u>Subject:</u></strong> Josh Doody interview—Follow-up and next steps
</p>
<p>Hi Shawn</p>
<p>It’s been about a week since I talked with Andy, so I wanted to follow up to see if you need anything else from me. I’m also curious if you can give me a sense of our next steps in the process.</p>
<p>Thanks for your time and I hope all is well!</p>

<p>Josh Doody<br>
josh@example.com<br>
555-555-1234</p>
</div>
<hr>


Hopefully, Shawn will reach out and let you know they’re ready to schedule your next interview. In that case, you’re right back to the [interview]({{ site.baseurl }}/the-interview-phase/) step, and you’ll rinse and repeat that step along with the [Post-interview]({{ site.baseurl }}/post-interview-thank-you-emails/) step until you either get an offer or they let you know, explicitly or implicitly, that they’re not going to move forward with you.

Commit message:

ad box for Basic Edition on /book pages with email template or worksheet

_book_excerpts/interview/post-interview-check-in-email.md, after:

---
layout: book_excerpt
title: How to check in after your job interviews
tagline: Wait about a week and send a follow-up 
excerpt: You should follow up weekly for at least a few weeks after your job interview to stay on the company's radar.
has_basic_edition_pitch: true
last_modified_at: 2016-06-29
chapter: interview
section: 10
---

Some companies will let you know if they decide not to move forward with you, and some companies won’t. It’s difficult to know which you’re dealing with, so you may want to send one more follow-up email after about a week to make sure they haven’t forgotten about you. 

In this example, "Shawn" is the recruiter you've been working with and "Andy" is the hiring manager who interviewed you last.

## A sample check-in email you can send to the recruiter you've been working with

<hr>
<div class='u-highlight'>
<p>
	<strong><u>To:</u></strong> Shawn Jones <shawn.jones@example.com><br>
	<strong><u>Subject:</u></strong> Josh Doody interview—Follow-up and next steps
</p>
<p>Hi Shawn</p>
<p>It’s been about a week since I talked with Andy, so I wanted to follow up to see if you need anything else from me. I’m also curious if you can give me a sense of our next steps in the process.</p>
<p>Thanks for your time and I hope all is well!</p>

<p>Josh Doody<br>
josh@example.com<br>
555-555-1234</p>
</div>
<hr>


Hopefully, Shawn will reach out and let you know they’re ready to schedule your next interview. In that case, you’re right back to the [interview]({{ site.baseurl }}/the-interview-phase/) step, and you’ll rinse and repeat that step along with the [Post-interview]({{ site.baseurl }}/post-interview-thank-you-emails/) step until you either get an offer or they let you know, explicitly or implicitly, that they’re not going to move forward with you.

{% include book_ad_box.html offer="the sample check-in email template" blurb="Download this email template and several others when you buy The Basic Edition of <em>Fearless Salary Negotiation</em>." %}
