_book_excerpts/interview/post-interview-thank-you-emails.md, before:

---
layout: book_excerpt
title: Follow up with a thank you email after your job interview
tagline: Sample thank you emails you can send after a job interview
excerpt: Even after you finish your job interviews, you can continue to impress and stay in touch by sending thanks you emails.
last_modified_at: 2016-06-25
chapter: interview
section: 9
---

Now you’ve aced the Interview, but your work isn’t done yet—you still have a few more opportunities to stand out in the post-interview.

First, if you happen to have your interviewer's email address (we're calling him Andy), shoot him a very, very short email thanking him for his time. You’ll also want to discretely share your contact information just in case he needs it later. Unless there’s something specific he expects you to follow up on, don’t ask any new questions or give Andy any action items in this email. This is just a short email to say "Thanks!" and demonstrate professionalism; it shouldn’t require a response. 

## A sample thank you email to send to your interviewer

<hr>
<div class='u-highlight'>
<p>
	<strong><u>To:</u></strong> Andy Smith <andy.smith@example.com><br>
	<strong><u>Subject:</u></strong> Josh Doody interview—Thanks for your time!
</p>
<p>Hi Andy</p>
<p>I just wanted to say thanks for your time today. It was great to learn more about ACME Corp, and about the Associate Accountant role in particular. ACME Corp sounds like a great company to work for!</p>
<p>Feel free to email or call anytime if you have any follow-up questions.</p>
<p>Thanks again for your time and have a great day!</p>

<p>All the best</p>
<p>Josh Doody<br>
josh@example.com<br>
555-555-1234</p>
</div>
<hr>


You’ll also want to send an email to the recruiter if that person and Andy are different people. There’s one wrinkle here: If you *don’t* have Andy’s contact information, you’ll want to ask the recruiter thank him for you and let him know that you appreciated his time.

## A sample thank you email to send to the recruiter you're working with

<hr>
<div class='u-highlight'>
<p>
	<strong><u>To:</u></strong> Shawn Jones <shawn.jones@example.com><br>
	<strong><u>Subject:</u></strong> Josh Doody interview—Thanks for your time!
</p>
<p>Hi Shawn</p>
<p>I hope you had a great weekend!</p>
<p>Thanks so much for arranging my interview with Andy today. It was great to learn more about ACME Corp, and about the Associate Accountant role in particular. ACME Corp sounds like a great company to work for!</p>
<p>If you talk with him, please thank Andy for me and let him know that I appreciated his time today.</p>
<p>If you need anything else from me, please let me know. Otherwise, I look forward to the next steps in our process!</p>

<p>All the best</p>
<p>Josh Doody<br>
josh@example.com<br>
555-555-1234</p>
</div>
<hr>

Commit message:

ad box for Basic Edition on /book pages with email template or worksheet

_book_excerpts/interview/post-interview-thank-you-emails.md, after:

---
layout: book_excerpt
title: Follow up with a thank you email after your job interview
tagline: Sample thank you emails you can send after a job interview
excerpt: Even after you finish your job interviews, you can continue to impress and stay in touch by sending thanks you emails.
has_basic_edition_pitch: true
last_modified_at: 2016-06-29
chapter: interview
section: 9
---

Now you’ve aced the Interview, but your work isn’t done yet—you still have a few more opportunities to stand out in the post-interview.

First, if you happen to have your interviewer's email address (we're calling him Andy), shoot him a very, very short email thanking him for his time. You’ll also want to discretely share your contact information just in case he needs it later. Unless there’s something specific he expects you to follow up on, don’t ask any new questions or give Andy any action items in this email. This is just a short email to say "Thanks!" and demonstrate professionalism; it shouldn’t require a response. 

## A sample thank you email to send to your interviewer

<hr>
<div class='u-highlight'>
<p>
	<strong><u>To:</u></strong> Andy Smith <andy.smith@example.com><br>
	<strong><u>Subject:</u></strong> Josh Doody interview—Thanks for your time!
</p>
<p>Hi Andy</p>
<p>I just wanted to say thanks for your time today. It was great to learn more about ACME Corp, and about the Associate Accountant role in particular. ACME Corp sounds like a great company to work for!</p>
<p>Feel free to email or call anytime if you have any follow-up questions.</p>
<p>Thanks again for your time and have a great day!</p>

<p>All the best</p>
<p>Josh Doody<br>
josh@example.com<br>
555-555-1234</p>
</div>
<hr>


You’ll also want to send an email to the recruiter if that person and Andy are different people. There’s one wrinkle here: If you *don’t* have Andy’s contact information, you’ll want to ask the recruiter thank him for you and let him know that you appreciated his time.

## A sample thank you email to send to the recruiter you're working with

<hr>
<div class='u-highlight'>
<p>
	<strong><u>To:</u></strong> Shawn Jones <shawn.jones@example.com><br>
	<strong><u>Subject:</u></strong> Josh Doody interview—Thanks for your time!
</p>
<p>Hi Shawn</p>
<p>I hope you had a great weekend!</p>
<p>Thanks so much for arranging my interview with Andy today. It was great to learn more about ACME Corp, and about the Associate Accountant role in particular. ACME Corp sounds like a great company to work for!</p>
<p>If you talk with him, please thank Andy for me and let him know that I appreciated his time today.</p>
<p>If you need anything else from me, please let me know. Otherwise, I look forward to the next steps in our process!</p>

<p>All the best</p>
<p>Josh Doody<br>
josh@example.com<br>
555-555-1234</p>
</div>
<hr>

{% include book_ad_box.html offer="the sample thank you email templates" blurb="Download these email templates and several others when you buy The Basic Edition of <em>Fearless Salary Negotiation</em>." %}
